# Paper-Grading-System

#### The paper grading system will take answers as input and would compare them with the ideal answer to grade students. The answers will be processed and broken down into root words to compare with the ideal answers.
#### Using semantic analysis, the similarity between words will be measured by similarity index which would return a score. Even if different synonyms are used, the program maps the synonyms using Ontology and generates a perfect score. Hence, if different words are used and the same meaning is conveyed, then the student would get full marks. 

#### Steps followed in processing-
##### 1. Read Data from File
##### 2. Identify and remove the stopwords
##### 3. Use the Lemmatizer to tokenize the words and fetch it's root form (example - "drinking" becomes "drink")
##### 4. Calculate similarity Index and based on a threshold, return the grade.


Sentence 1:  Machine learning has seen use cases ranging from predicting customer behavior to forming the operating system for self-driving cars.When it comes to advantages, machine learning can help enterprises understand their customers at a deeper level. By collecting customer data and correlating it with behaviors over time, machine learning algorithms can learn associations and help teams tailor product development and marketing initiatives to customer demand.Some companies use machine learning as a primary driver in their business models. Uber, for example, uses algorithms to match drivers with riders. Google uses machine learning to surface the ride advertisements in searches.But machine learning comes with disadvantages. First and foremost, it can be expensive. Machine learning projects are typically driven by data scientists, who command high salaries. These projects also require software infrastructure that can be expensive.There is also the problem of machine learning bias. Algorithms trained on data sets that exclude certain populations or contain errors can lead to inaccurate models of the world that, at best, fail and, at worst, are discriminatory. When an enterprise bases core business processes on biased models it can run into regulatory and reputational harm.

--------Tokenization--------
 
 ['Machine', 'learning', 'has', 'seen', 'use', 'cases', 'ranging', 'from', 'predicting', 'customer', 'behavior', 'to', 'forming', 'the', 'operating', 'system', 'for', 'self-driving', 'cars.When', 'it', 'comes', 'to', 'advantages', ',', 'machine', 'learning', 'can', 'help', 'enterprises', 'understand', 'their', 'customers', 'at', 'a', 'deeper', 'level', '.', 'By', 'collecting', 'customer', 'data', 'and', 'correlating', 'it', 'with', 'behaviors', 'over', 'time', ',', 'machine', 'learning', 'algorithms', 'can', 'learn', 'associations', 'and', 'help', 'teams', 'tailor', 'product', 'development', 'and', 'marketing', 'initiatives', 'to', 'customer', 'demand.Some', 'companies', 'use', 'machine', 'learning', 'as', 'a', 'primary', 'driver', 'in', 'their', 'business', 'models', '.', 'Uber', ',', 'for', 'example', ',', 'uses', 'algorithms', 'to', 'match', 'drivers', 'with', 'riders', '.', 'Google', 'uses', 'machine', 'learning', 'to', 'surface', 'the', 'ride', 'advertisements', 'in', 'searches.But', 'machine', 'learning', 'comes', 'with', 'disadvantages', '.', 'First', 'and', 'foremost', ',', 'it', 'can', 'be', 'expensive', '.', 'Machine', 'learning', 'projects', 'are', 'typically', 'driven', 'by', 'data', 'scientists', ',', 'who', 'command', 'high', 'salaries', '.', 'These', 'projects', 'also', 'require', 'software', 'infrastructure', 'that', 'can', 'be', 'expensive.There', 'is', 'also', 'the', 'problem', 'of', 'machine', 'learning', 'bias', '.', 'Algorithms', 'trained', 'on', 'data', 'sets', 'that', 'exclude', 'certain', 'populations', 'or', 'contain', 'errors', 'can', 'lead', 'to', 'inaccurate', 'models', 'of', 'the', 'world', 'that', ',', 'at', 'best', ',', 'fail', 'and', ',', 'at', 'worst', ',', 'are', 'discriminatory', '.', 'When', 'an', 'enterprise', 'bases', 'core', 'business', 'processes', 'on', 'biased', 'models', 'it', 'can', 'run', 'into', 'regulatory', 'and', 'reputational', 'harm', '.']
 
--------After Stop Words Removal--------

['use', 'ranging', 'forming', 'system', 'advantage', 'enterprise', 'level', 'collecting', 'correlating', 'time', 'learn', 'association', 'tailor', 'development', 'initiative', 'use', 'primary', 'Uber', 'us', 'match', 'rider', 'us', 'surface', 'ride', 'advertisement', 'come', 'disadvantage', 'foremost', 'project', 'typically', 'command', 'salary', 'project', 'require', 'infrastructure', 'bias', 'trained', 'set', 'exclude', 'certain', 'contain', 'lead', 'world', 'fail', 'discriminatory', 'enterprise', 'core', 'process', 'biased', 'run', 'reputational', 'harm']


Sentence 2:  Machine learning has seen use cases ranging from predicting customer behavior to developing the operating system for autonomous cars.  When it comes to profit, machine learning can help companies understand their customers on a deeper level. By collecting customer data and correlating it to behavior over time, machine learning algorithms can learn associations and help teams tailor product development and marketing initiatives to meet customer demand.  Some companies use machine learning as the main driver in their business models. For example, Uber uses algorithms to match drivers with passengers. Google uses machine learning to show the ads that generate search ads.  But machine learning has its drawbacks. First, it can be expensive. Machine learning projects are often driven by data scientists demanding high salaries. These projects also require a software infrastructure, which can be expensive.  There is also the problem of machine learning bias. Algorithms trained on data sets that exclude certain populations or contain errors can lead to inaccurate models of the world that are faulty at best and discriminatory at worst. If a company bases its core business processes on distorted models, it can lead to regulatory damage and reputational damage.

--------Tokenization--------

 ['Machine', 'learning', 'has', 'seen', 'use', 'cases', 'ranging', 'from', 'predicting', 'customer', 'behavior', 'to', 'developing', 'the', 'operating', 'system', 'for', 'autonomous', 'cars', '.', 'When', 'it', 'comes', 'to', 'profit', ',', 'machine', 'learning', 'can', 'help', 'companies', 'understand', 'their', 'customers', 'on', 'a', 'deeper', 'level', '.', 'By', 'collecting', 'customer', 'data', 'and', 'correlating', 'it', 'to', 'behavior', 'over', 'time', ',', 'machine', 'learning', 'algorithms', 'can', 'learn', 'associations', 'and', 'help', 'teams', 'tailor', 'product', 'development', 'and', 'marketing', 'initiatives', 'to', 'meet', 'customer', 'demand', '.', 'Some', 'companies', 'use', 'machine', 'learning', 'as', 'the', 'main', 'driver', 'in', 'their', 'business', 'models', '.', 'For', 'example', ',', 'Uber', 'uses', 'algorithms', 'to', 'match', 'drivers', 'with', 'passengers', '.', 'Google', 'uses', 'machine', 'learning', 'to', 'show', 'the', 'ads', 'that', 'generate', 'search', 'ads', '.', 'But', 'machine', 'learning', 'has', 'its', 'drawbacks', '.', 'First', ',', 'it', 'can', 'be', 'expensive', '.', 'Machine', 'learning', 'projects', 'are', 'often', 'driven', 'by', 'data', 'scientists', 'demanding', 'high', 'salaries', '.', 'These', 'projects', 'also', 'require', 'a', 'software', 'infrastructure', ',', 'which', 'can', 'be', 'expensive', '.', 'There', 'is', 'also', 'the', 'problem', 'of', 'machine', 'learning', 'bias', '.', 'Algorithms', 'trained', 'on', 'data', 'sets', 'that', 'exclude', 'certain', 'populations', 'or', 'contain', 'errors', 'can', 'lead', 'to', 'inaccurate', 'models', 'of', 'the', 'world', 'that', 'are', 'faulty', 'at', 'best', 'and', 'discriminatory', 'at', 'worst', '.', 'If', 'a', 'company', 'bases', 'its', 'core', 'business', 'processes', 'on', 'distorted', 'models', ',', 'it', 'can', 'lead', 'to', 'regulatory', 'damage', 'and', 'reputational', 'damage', '.']
 
--------After Stop Words Removal--------

['use', 'ranging', 'developing', 'system', 'autonomous', 'car', 'profit', 'level', 'collecting', 'correlating', 'time', 'learn', 'association', 'tailor', 'development', 'initiative', 'meet', 'demand', 'Some', 'use', 'main', 'For', 'Uber', 'us', 'match', 'passenger', 'us', 'show', 'ad', 'generate', 'search', 'ad', 'But', 'drawback', 'project', 'often', 'demanding', 'salary', 'project', 'require', 'infrastructure', 'There', 'bias', 'trained', 'set', 'exclude', 'certain', 'contain', 'lead', 'world', 'faulty', 'discriminatory', 'If', 'core', 'process', 'distorted', 'lead', 'damage', 'reputational', 'damage']

Similarity index value :  0.96

Full Grade
​
